So before we move on completely from this
process, I do wanna take just a moment to
pause and talk about defining
the stakeholder relationship.
How we work with our stakeholders,
and by extension,
our own relationship, our role,
and what we do as designers.
So, this is so incredibly important
because, let's be honest,
most stakeholders provide a lot of
irrelevant feedback to the design process,
or they attempt to micromanage the design.
And so it can be really helpful
at the very beginning of
a project to define what their role is and
what you want them to
achieve within the project.
So there are kind of three things
that I define as a client's role in
a design project.
Number one is that their job is to
find problems and not solutions.
I explained this to them right up front.
And the example that I give is,
let's say you're looking at
a design that I've produced,
and you're not entirely happy with it.
Maybe it's aimed at
a preteen girl audience, and
I've used a lot of corporate blue in it or
something like that.
Your desire as a stakeholder will be
to come back to me with a solution.
Can you change the blue to pink, right?
Which is maybe a perfectly good
solution to the problem, but
it doesn't educate me as to
what the underlying problem is.
And it kind of stops you getting value for
money out me as a designer because
if I don't understand the problem,
I can't suggest alternative solutions.
So if you come to me and say, I'm worried,
the preteen girl audience isn't gonna like
the corporate blue, that's something I
can work with, and I might solve it.
You can say, also,
shall we change it to pink?
That's fine, you can express an opinion.
But I might come back and go, well,
actually, instead of changing it to pink,
let's add, I don't know,
more unicorns and fairies or
whatever it is that preteen girls like,
I don't know, I don't have a daughter.
So but you get the kind of idea
that defining their role within
the relationship works really good.
I also say that their role is
to champion the business needs.
They exist really to say, well,
this isn't going to work for
the business or this is what we're
trying to achieve, that kind of thing.
And then finally, I do suggest that
their role is to defend the user.
Now, to be quite frank, my role as
a designer is to defend the user as well.
But by actively giving
it to them as a role and
saying to them that upfront and
repeating that through the project,
it just reminds the client
not to forget the user.
If they're made responsible for the user,
then they think about the user.
So just take a bit of time to define
the relationships up front will make
an enormous difference.
So really, that's all I wanna
say about that kind of overall,
how to run a design project, and how to
make the different stages work, and all of
that before we get into the very specifics
of how to approach the design, etc.
So I thought it might be helpful to have
a little checklist summary cuz I know
I dumped a lot of content on you in a very
longer length of time than I thought,
but still a lot of information
in the short time.
So, this is really a checklist before
you start doing a design project, right?
These are the things that
I would advise you to do.
One, define both your role and
that of the client,
that will make an enormous
difference upfront.
Second, outline your product process,
even if you don't use the project process
that I've presented and you use
a slightly different one, that's fine.
But make sure you clearly explained
to the client what's gonna happen,
when it's gonna happen, and specifically
why that is a good approach, all right?
Then a greater set of design principles
that can aid your decision making.
It will be something you
can come back to time and
time again through the project to keep
the client or stakeholder on track.
Make sure you carry out
as much user research as
you can within the limitations
you're operating with.
And as a minimum,
turn that into empathy maps,
you might want to do customer journey
mapping and other things as well.
But that depends on what
you've got available.
And then agree on that list of key
performance indicators to define success
because you can come back
to that later as well.
And then finally, identify and
speak to as many stakeholders as possible.
Search out those hidden stakeholders,
right?
So that senior manager that you don't
normally get to talk to, try and
find access to that person, and
find out what their agenda is and
draw them into the process.
If there's an unofficial stakeholder,
my nephew says,
that kind of stakeholder, then find
those and engage with them as well.